README.md, before:

# Cucumber-export

> This cucumber formatter works well with cucumber version 7.x. If you are still using cucumber 6.x refer to the version @restqa/cucumber-export@0.1.10


## Table of content

- [Installation](#installation)
- [API](#api)
  - [getFormatter([options])](#cucumberexportgetformatteroptions)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Setup your formatter](#setup-your-formatter-through-cucumber)
  - [Run with cucumber-js](#run-cucumber-js)
  - [Setup as a module](#setup-as-a-module)
- [Options](#options)
- [Outputs](#outputs)
  - [File](#file)
  - [HTML](#html)
  - [Webhook](#webhook)
  - [Slack](#slack)
  - [Microsoft Teams](#microsoft-teams)
  - [Discord](#discord)
  - [Line](#line)
  - [Mattermost](#mattermost)
  - [Elastic-Search](#elastic-search)
     - [kibana](#kibana)
     - [Grafana](#grafana)
  - [http-html-report](#http-html-report)
  - [stream](#stream)
- [Development](#development)
- [Todo](#todo)

## Installation

```sh
npm install @restqa/cucumber-export
```

## API

```js
const { getFormatter } = require('@restqa/cucumber-export');
```

The `getFormatter` object expose a function receving your exports options.
All The options are shared below.

### cucumberExport.getFormatter([options])

Returns a cucumber formatter where the result will be pre-formatted and transferred
to the selected destination.

## Usage

### Setup your formatter (through cucumber)

Create a new file at the root of your project. (restqa-formatter.js)

```js
# <root-dir>/restqa-formatter.js

const { getFormatter } = require('@restqa/cucumber-export')
const stream = require('stream')
const instance = new stream.Writable({
  write: (data, encoding, next) => {
    console.log(JSON.parse(data.toString('utf-8')))
    next()
  }
})



let envConfig = {
  uuid: 'xxx-yyy-zzz',
  name: 'local',
  env: 'uat',
  outputs: [
    {
      type: 'stream',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        instance: instance
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'html',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        path: 'my-report-folder', // (default: ./report)
        browserOpening: true // (default: true)
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'http-html-report',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://html-report.your-domain.dev' // (default : https://html-report.restqa.io)
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'webhook',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://httpdump.io/lb8f7',
        method: 'POST',
        headers: {
          'x-apikey': 'xxx-yyy-zzz'
        }
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'elastic-search',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'http://my-elastic-search.local:9200',
        index: 'bdd-e2e'
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'file',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        path: 'my-report.json' // File to save
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'slack',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/service/xxx/yyy/zzz', // The slack webhook url
        onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false)
        showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within slack
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'microsoft-teams',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://outlook.office.com/webhook/xxx/IncomingWebhook/yyy/zzz', // The teams webhook url
        onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false)
        showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within teams
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'line',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        token: 'sEdkjfEr745aasd546saSDdjklawE74S', // The line notfication token
        onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false)
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'discord',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://discordapp.com/api/webhooks/xxx/yyy', // The discord webhook url
        onlyFailed: false, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false)
        showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within slack
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}', // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one,
        tts: false, // enable TTS for the message, false by default
        username: 'bot-name' //  alternative name for bot, uses the name it has in discord UI by default if nothing specified
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'mattermost',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://your-mattermost-url/webhooks/xxx',
        onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false),
        showErrors: true, // Show the error message within Mattermost,
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}', // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
        channel: 'town-square', // The channel to send messages to
        username: 'restqa-formatter', // Username to post as (only works if bot is allowed to change its name)
        iconUrl: '', // Link to bot profile picture (only works if bot is allowed to change image)
        iconEmoji: 'laughing',  // An emoji tag without the ':'s for bot profile picture (only works if bot is allowed to change image)
        displayedErrorsLimit: 25 // Limit the number of errors displayed in one message
      }
    }
  ]
}

module.exports = getFormatter(envConfig)
```

### Run with cucumber-js

You can now run cucumber-js with the just created formatter

`cucumber-js -f ./restqa-formatter.js:restqa.log`

> It's important to defined formatter export path to have access the logs, you can refer to the cucumber-js documentation (https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/master/docs/cli.md#formats)'

### Setup as a module

If you already have an JSON export file you can export the result using :

```
const { Export } = require('@restqa/cucumber-export')

async function main(result) {
  const options = {
    uuid: 'xxx-yyy-zzz',
    name: 'local',
    env: 'uat',
    outputs: [
      {
        type: 'html',
        enabled: true
      }
    ]
  }

  const exportResult = await Export(result, options)
  console.log(exportResult)
}

main(result) 
```

IMPORTANT : The duration can't be defined if you use this method. (it will appear as 0 into your repart)




## Options

The Options are mandatory.

##### uuid \<string> (optional)

Represent the unique identifier of current test suit exported.

_Default: autogenerated from [uuid : v4](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid#version-4-random)_

##### name \<string> (optional)

Represent the name of the current test suite (example: The backend api for the mobile application)

##### title  \<string> (optional)

Represent a custom title that you want to show at the beginning of the export. (default: CUCUMBER EXPORT)

##### startTime \<date> (optional)

Represent a unique key of the current test suite (example: 2018–01–30T12:34:56+00:00)

_Default: current datetime_

##### key \<string> (optional)

Represent a unique key of the current test suite (example: backend-api)

##### env \<string> (optional)

Represent a environment of the current test suite (example: uat)

##### outputs \<array> (required)

You can configure different output, see below the available output reporters.

## Outputs

### Stream

Export the result to a Writable Stream

```
{
  type: 'stream',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    instance: WritableStream // The writable stream instance
  }
}
```

### File

Export the result to a JSON file

```
{
  type: 'file',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    path: 'my-report.json' // File to save
  }
}
```

### HTML

Export the result to a local file folder as HTML format

```
{
  type: 'html',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    path: 'my-folder', // Folder to save the report
    browserOpening: true // Open the report on the default browser
  }
}
```

_Example_:

![html](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-html.png)


### Webhook

Export the result to a webhook

```
{
  type: 'webhook',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://httpdump.io/rb6zi', // The http endpoint to send the result
    method: 'POST', // The http method to use
    headers: { // The request headers to use
      apikey: 'xxx-yyy-zzz'
    }
  }
}
```

### Slack

Receive a notification on slack about you test report

```
{
  type: 'slack',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/service/xxx/yyy/zzz', // The slack webhook url
    onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true)
    showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within slack
    reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
  }
}
```

_Example_:

![slack notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-slack.png)

### Microsoft Teams

Receive a connector card in your Microsoft Teams channel when your test finishes

```
{
  type: 'microsoft-teams',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://outlook.office.com/webhook/xxx/IncomingWebhook/yyy/zzz', // The teams webhook url (tutorial : https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/msteams-webhooks-connectors/5-exercise-incoming-webhooks)
    onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true)
    showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within teams
  }
}
```

In order to get the url of the incoming webhook, take a look at : https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/msteams-webhooks-connectors/5-exercise-incoming-webhooks

_Example_:

![teams notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-teams.png)

### Discord

Receive a message in your Discord channel when your test finishes via webhook. See how to set up the webhook bot here:

```
{
  type: 'discord',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://discordapp.com/api/webhooks/xxx/yyy', // The discord webhook url
    onlyFailed: false, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true)
    showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within slack
    reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}', // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one,
    tts: false, // enable TTS for the message, false by default
    username: 'bot-name' //  alternative name for bot, uses the name it has in discord UI by default if nothing specified
  }
}
```

_Example_:

![discord notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-discord.png)

### Line

Receive a notification on line about you test report

```
{
  type: 'line',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    token: 'sEdkjfEr745aasd546saSDdjklawE74S', // The line notfication token (get your token here : https://notify-bot.line.me/en/)
    onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true)
    reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
  }
}
```

In order to get the token for the nofify line app, take a look at : https://notify-bot.line.me/en/

_Example_:

![line notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-line.jpg)

### Mattermost

Receive a notification in your Mattermost channel when your test finishes

```
{
  type: 'mattermost',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://your-mattermost-url/webhooks/xxx',
    onlyFailed: true // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true),
    showErrors: true // Show the error message within Mattermost,
    reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}', // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
    channel: 'town-square', // The channel to send messages to
    username: 'restqa-formatter', // Username to post as (only works if bot is allowed to change its name)
    iconUrl: '', // Link to bot profile picture (only works if bot is allowed to change image)
    iconEmoji: 'laughing',  // An emoji tag without the ':'s for bot profile picture (only works if bot is allowed to change image)
    displayedErrorsLimit: 25, // Limit the number of errors displayed in one message
  }
}
```

To personalise the bot, note the following from: https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/webhooks-incoming.html

> Enable integrations to override usernames must be set to true in config.json to override
> usernames. Enable them from System Console > Integrations > Custom Integrations in prior
> versions or System Console > Integrations > Integration Management in versions after 5.12 or
> ask your System Administrator to do so. If not enabled, the username is set to webhook.
>
> Similarly, Enable integrations to override profile picture icons must be set to true in
> config.json to override profile picture icons. Enable them from
> System Console > Integrations > Custom Integrations in prior versions or
> System Console > Integrations > Integration Management in versions after 5.12 or ask your
> System Administrator to do so. If not enabled, the icon of the creator of the webhook URL is
> used to post messages.

_Example_:

![Mattermost notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-mattermost.png)

### Elastic-Search

Export the result to an elastic search server (using rolling index)

```
{
  type: 'elastic-search',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'http://my-elastic-search.local:9200', // The elastic search endpoint
    index: 'bdd-e2e'  // The elastic search index to use (default: restqa-e2e-result)
  }
}
```

The Elastic Search export allows you to create nice dashboard within Grafana or Kibana. And the good things is that we already prepared everything for you :

#### Grafana

![grafana](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/screenshot-grafana.png)

[Access to the Grafana dashboard installation guide](./dashboard-setup/grafana/README.md)

#### kibana

![kibana](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/screenshot-kibana.png)

[Access to the Kibana dashboard installation guide](./dashboard-setup/kibana/README.md)

### Http html Report

Export the result to a remote endpoint in order to generate an html report.

For more information about the generation of the report you can look at the project : https://github.com/restqa/cucumber-html-reporter-server
Basically you have 2 options to use this reporter.]:

1. Use the Saas version hosted on : html-report.restqa.io (pro: ready, con: data privacy, shared)
2. Host your own, sotfware available here : https://github.com/restqa/sidekick-server

```
{
  type: 'http-html-report',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://html-report.your-domain.dev' // (default : https://restqa.io/reports),
    auth: { // Authentication through basic auth
      username: 'olive',
      password: 'test'
    }
  }
}
```


### DEVELOPMENT

if you would like to contribute to the project you will simply need to :

* Install the packages : `npm i`
* Then you can use the example available on the [./example](./example) folder using the command : `npm run example`


### TODO

Create channels for :

- Rocket chat
- Google Hangouts
- Prometheus
- Grafana Loki
- influxdb
- statsd
- testrail
- teamcity
- confluence
- junit
- Github Alert


## License

[MIT License](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Rename http-html-report to html-remote (#84)
* Update http-html-report

* change report name http-html-repor -> html-remote

* 🧑🏾‍🔧 Chores: Rename the http-html-report to html-remote #77

* 🧑🏾‍🔧 Chores: update the examples  + fix lint

README.md, after:

# Cucumber-export

> This cucumber formatter works well with cucumber version 7.x. If you are still using cucumber 6.x refer to the version @restqa/cucumber-export@0.1.10


## Table of content

- [Installation](#installation)
- [API](#api)
  - [getFormatter([options])](#cucumberexportgetformatteroptions)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Setup your formatter](#setup-your-formatter-through-cucumber)
  - [Run with cucumber-js](#run-cucumber-js)
  - [Setup as a module](#setup-as-a-module)
- [Options](#options)
- [Outputs](#outputs)
  - [File](#file)
  - [HTML](#html)
  - [Webhook](#webhook)
  - [Slack](#slack)
  - [Microsoft Teams](#microsoft-teams)
  - [Discord](#discord)
  - [Line](#line)
  - [Mattermost](#mattermost)
  - [Elastic-Search](#elastic-search)
     - [kibana](#kibana)
     - [Grafana](#grafana)
  - [HTML Remote](#html-remote)
  - [stream](#stream)
- [Development](#development)
- [Todo](#todo)

## Installation

```sh
npm install @restqa/cucumber-export
```

## API

```js
const { getFormatter } = require('@restqa/cucumber-export');
```

The `getFormatter` object expose a function receving your exports options.
All The options are shared below.

### cucumberExport.getFormatter([options])

Returns a cucumber formatter where the result will be pre-formatted and transferred
to the selected destination.

## Usage

### Setup your formatter (through cucumber)

Create a new file at the root of your project. (restqa-formatter.js)

```js
# <root-dir>/restqa-formatter.js

const { getFormatter } = require('@restqa/cucumber-export')
const stream = require('stream')
const instance = new stream.Writable({
  write: (data, encoding, next) => {
    console.log(JSON.parse(data.toString('utf-8')))
    next()
  }
})



let envConfig = {
  uuid: 'xxx-yyy-zzz',
  name: 'local',
  env: 'uat',
  outputs: [
    {
      type: 'stream',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        instance: instance
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'html',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        path: 'my-report-folder', // (default: ./report)
        browserOpening: true // (default: true)
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'html-remote',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://html-report.your-domain.dev' // (default : https://dashboard.restqa.io/reports)
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'webhook',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://httpdump.io/lb8f7',
        method: 'POST',
        headers: {
          'x-apikey': 'xxx-yyy-zzz'
        }
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'elastic-search',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'http://my-elastic-search.local:9200',
        index: 'bdd-e2e'
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'file',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        path: 'my-report.json' // File to save
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'slack',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/service/xxx/yyy/zzz', // The slack webhook url
        onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false)
        showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within slack
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'microsoft-teams',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://outlook.office.com/webhook/xxx/IncomingWebhook/yyy/zzz', // The teams webhook url
        onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false)
        showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within teams
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'line',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        token: 'sEdkjfEr745aasd546saSDdjklawE74S', // The line notfication token
        onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false)
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'discord',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://discordapp.com/api/webhooks/xxx/yyy', // The discord webhook url
        onlyFailed: false, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false)
        showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within slack
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}', // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one,
        tts: false, // enable TTS for the message, false by default
        username: 'bot-name' //  alternative name for bot, uses the name it has in discord UI by default if nothing specified
      }
    },
    {
      type: 'mattermost',
      enabled: true,
      config: {
        url: 'https://your-mattermost-url/webhooks/xxx',
        onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: false),
        showErrors: true, // Show the error message within Mattermost,
        reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}', // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
        channel: 'town-square', // The channel to send messages to
        username: 'restqa-formatter', // Username to post as (only works if bot is allowed to change its name)
        iconUrl: '', // Link to bot profile picture (only works if bot is allowed to change image)
        iconEmoji: 'laughing',  // An emoji tag without the ':'s for bot profile picture (only works if bot is allowed to change image)
        displayedErrorsLimit: 25 // Limit the number of errors displayed in one message
      }
    }
  ]
}

module.exports = getFormatter(envConfig)
```

### Run with cucumber-js

You can now run cucumber-js with the just created formatter

`cucumber-js -f ./restqa-formatter.js:restqa.log`

> It's important to defined formatter export path to have access the logs, you can refer to the cucumber-js documentation (https://github.com/cucumber/cucumber-js/blob/master/docs/cli.md#formats)'

### Setup as a module

If you already have an JSON export file you can export the result using :

```
const { Export } = require('@restqa/cucumber-export')

async function main(result) {
  const options = {
    uuid: 'xxx-yyy-zzz',
    name: 'local',
    env: 'uat',
    outputs: [
      {
        type: 'html',
        enabled: true
      }
    ]
  }

  const exportResult = await Export(result, options)
  console.log(exportResult)
}

main(result) 
```

IMPORTANT : The duration can't be defined if you use this method. (it will appear as 0 into your repart)




## Options

The Options are mandatory.

##### uuid \<string> (optional)

Represent the unique identifier of current test suit exported.

_Default: autogenerated from [uuid : v4](https://www.npmjs.com/package/uuid#version-4-random)_

##### name \<string> (optional)

Represent the name of the current test suite (example: The backend api for the mobile application)

##### title  \<string> (optional)

Represent a custom title that you want to show at the beginning of the export. (default: CUCUMBER EXPORT)

##### startTime \<date> (optional)

Represent a unique key of the current test suite (example: 2018–01–30T12:34:56+00:00)

_Default: current datetime_

##### key \<string> (optional)

Represent a unique key of the current test suite (example: backend-api)

##### env \<string> (optional)

Represent a environment of the current test suite (example: uat)

##### outputs \<array> (required)

You can configure different output, see below the available output reporters.

## Outputs

### Stream

Export the result to a Writable Stream

```
{
  type: 'stream',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    instance: WritableStream // The writable stream instance
  }
}
```

### File

Export the result to a JSON file

```
{
  type: 'file',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    path: 'my-report.json' // File to save
  }
}
```

### HTML

Export the result to a local file folder as HTML format

```
{
  type: 'html',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    path: 'my-folder', // Folder to save the report
    browserOpening: true // Open the report on the default browser
  }
}
```

_Example_:

![html](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-html.png)


### Webhook

Export the result to a webhook

```
{
  type: 'webhook',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://httpdump.io/rb6zi', // The http endpoint to send the result
    method: 'POST', // The http method to use
    headers: { // The request headers to use
      apikey: 'xxx-yyy-zzz'
    }
  }
}
```

### Slack

Receive a notification on slack about you test report

```
{
  type: 'slack',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://hooks.slack.com/service/xxx/yyy/zzz', // The slack webhook url
    onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true)
    showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within slack
    reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
  }
}
```

_Example_:

![slack notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-slack.png)

### Microsoft Teams

Receive a connector card in your Microsoft Teams channel when your test finishes

```
{
  type: 'microsoft-teams',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://outlook.office.com/webhook/xxx/IncomingWebhook/yyy/zzz', // The teams webhook url (tutorial : https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/msteams-webhooks-connectors/5-exercise-incoming-webhooks)
    onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true)
    showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within teams
  }
}
```

In order to get the url of the incoming webhook, take a look at : https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/learn/modules/msteams-webhooks-connectors/5-exercise-incoming-webhooks

_Example_:

![teams notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-teams.png)

### Discord

Receive a message in your Discord channel when your test finishes via webhook. See how to set up the webhook bot here:

```
{
  type: 'discord',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://discordapp.com/api/webhooks/xxx/yyy', // The discord webhook url
    onlyFailed: false, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true)
    showErrors: true,  // Show the error message within slack
    reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}', // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one,
    tts: false, // enable TTS for the message, false by default
    username: 'bot-name' //  alternative name for bot, uses the name it has in discord UI by default if nothing specified
  }
}
```

_Example_:

![discord notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-discord.png)

### Line

Receive a notification on line about you test report

```
{
  type: 'line',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    token: 'sEdkjfEr745aasd546saSDdjklawE74S', // The line notfication token (get your token here : https://notify-bot.line.me/en/)
    onlyFailed: true, // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true)
    reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}' // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
  }
}
```

In order to get the token for the nofify line app, take a look at : https://notify-bot.line.me/en/

_Example_:

![line notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-line.jpg)

### Mattermost

Receive a notification in your Mattermost channel when your test finishes

```
{
  type: 'mattermost',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://your-mattermost-url/webhooks/xxx',
    onlyFailed: true // Trigger the hook only for test failure  (default: true),
    showErrors: true // Show the error message within Mattermost,
    reportUrl: 'https://www.test.report/{uuid}', // The url to access to your detail test report if you have one
    channel: 'town-square', // The channel to send messages to
    username: 'restqa-formatter', // Username to post as (only works if bot is allowed to change its name)
    iconUrl: '', // Link to bot profile picture (only works if bot is allowed to change image)
    iconEmoji: 'laughing',  // An emoji tag without the ':'s for bot profile picture (only works if bot is allowed to change image)
    displayedErrorsLimit: 25, // Limit the number of errors displayed in one message
  }
}
```

To personalise the bot, note the following from: https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/webhooks-incoming.html

> Enable integrations to override usernames must be set to true in config.json to override
> usernames. Enable them from System Console > Integrations > Custom Integrations in prior
> versions or System Console > Integrations > Integration Management in versions after 5.12 or
> ask your System Administrator to do so. If not enabled, the username is set to webhook.
>
> Similarly, Enable integrations to override profile picture icons must be set to true in
> config.json to override profile picture icons. Enable them from
> System Console > Integrations > Custom Integrations in prior versions or
> System Console > Integrations > Integration Management in versions after 5.12 or ask your
> System Administrator to do so. If not enabled, the icon of the creator of the webhook URL is
> used to post messages.

_Example_:

![Mattermost notification](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/cucumber-export-mattermost.png)

### Elastic-Search

Export the result to an elastic search server (using rolling index)

```
{
  type: 'elastic-search',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'http://my-elastic-search.local:9200', // The elastic search endpoint
    index: 'bdd-e2e'  // The elastic search index to use (default: restqa-e2e-result)
  }
}
```

The Elastic Search export allows you to create nice dashboard within Grafana or Kibana. And the good things is that we already prepared everything for you :

#### Grafana

![grafana](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/screenshot-grafana.png)

[Access to the Grafana dashboard installation guide](./dashboard-setup/grafana/README.md)

#### kibana

![kibana](https://restqa.io/assets/img/utils/screenshot-kibana.png)

[Access to the Kibana dashboard installation guide](./dashboard-setup/kibana/README.md)

### HTML Remote

Export the result to a remote endpoint in order to generate an html report.

For more information about the generation of the report you can look at the project : 

1. Use the SaaS version hosted on : dashboard.restqa.io (pro: ready, cons: data privacy, shared)
2. Host your own, take a look at the [documentation](https://docs.restqa.io/reporting/html-remote)

```
{
  type: 'html-remote',
  enabled: true,
  config: {
    url: 'https://html-remote.your-domain.dev', // (default : https://dashboard.restqa.io/reports),
    auth: { // Authentication through basic auth
      username: 'john',
      password: 'secure123'
    }
  }
}
```


### DEVELOPMENT

if you would like to contribute to the project you will simply need to :

* Install the packages : `npm i`
* Then you can use the example available on the [./example](./example) folder using the command : `npm run example`


### TODO

Create channels for :

- Rocket chat
- Google Hangouts
- Prometheus
- Grafana Loki
- influxdb
- statsd
- testrail
- teamcity
- confluence
- junit
- Github Alert


## License

[MIT License](./LICENSE)
